# UltraMac
## How to run
First, install `Python3` (UltraMac was built using `Python 3.9`, so to be safe use `Python 3.9` or later) and then `pip install` any packages that are imported at the top of `UltraMac.py` which you don't already have, likely `tkinter` and `pandas`. Then, run `python3 UltraMac.py` in the terminal. When done, simply close the `Tkinter` window to quit. 

## Description
For my final project, I am building UltraMac, an upgraded version of an online speed math game/quizzer called ZetaMac. UltraMac is similarly designed to be a speed-focused math game that tests your quick mental math calculation skills on a variety of addition, multiplication, subtraction, division, and exponentiation problems. UltraMac is built to be run locally using `Python` and `Tkinter`. UltraMac generates random arithmetic problems to be solved (all with integer numbers and integer solutions), and a player's score is calculated based on the number and type of problems that they solve (harder types of problems reward more score per problem), then saved in a CSV file under that player's username. 

## Goals and motivation
Even building just the original ZetaMac game in `Python` with a GUI would already be a good challenge for such a final project, likely consisting of more work than any of our existing psets, especially since it would require one to learn how to use a GUI library like `Tkinter`. Beyond that, I have upgraded UltraMac compared to the original ZetaMac game by making UltraMac a more comprehensive and useful version in some ways, with more options and complexity for the problems as well as tracking of scores over time. For example, the original ZetaMac game does not have exponentiation problems, and it also does not have compound problems (original ZetaMac never combines two arithmetic operations, like adding then multiplying, etc.). The original ZetaMac game also does not have a way to track your scores over time, so I added that feature to UltraMac by letting users input usernames and storing their scores in a corresponding CSV file. This is useful for users to help track their scores over time and see if they are improving, since the goal of UltraMac (and also ZetaMac) is to help train people's mental math abilities, which is useful for a variety of goals, such as to perform better in certain finance or quant job interviews where they ask you to do speed math. I also learned how to use `unittest` to test part of my code. 

## Problem generation and scoring
* Compound problems consist of multiple operations, which is not a feature that ZetaMac includes. So, this is a signfiicant upgrade we did, since it allows for substantially more challenging mental math (while each individual operation should still be simple enough to do in one's head).
* The base problems (consisting of just one operation) are designed to be approximately of similar difficulty in terms of mental math, so that they are all worth the same score. We do this by adjusting the upper bounds of the random numbers that are generated for each operation so that the difficulty is similar. Ex: Addition has a larger upper bound than multiplication, since multiplication is more difficult. Similarly, exponentiation has a smaller upper bound than multiplication, since exponentiation is more difficult.
* We reward a higher score for compound problems, since they are more difficult. We increase score by one for each operation in the compound problem. So, a compound problem with 3 operations is worth 3 points, and a compound problem with 2 operations is worth 2 points.
* For all the problems that involve subtraction, we want to ensure that the result is non-negative. So, we sometimes sort the numbers in descending order so smaller number gets subtracted from bigger number. Other times, we set the upper bound to be whatever the expression is that we are subtracting from.
* For division, we want to ensure that the result is an integer, so we multiply two numbers together to get a bigger number that is for sure divisible by the second number. The logic behind ensuring that the result is an integer is tricky, so we do not include division when creating compound problems.
* We also do not include exponentiation when creating compound problems because they would be generally infeasible to solve using mental math in compound problems.

# Credits
Check out the original ZetaMac game [here](https://arithmetic.zetamac.com/). I was inspired to build UltraMac after playing ZetaMac and being frustrated that my progress was not being tracked, so it was hard to tell how much I was improving (or rusting, haha). 

Thanks for looking at my project! Huge shout-out to the CS 32 teaching team for all their support. :D 
